## Saturday 3 August 2013

Spent ages fucking about reorganising `curiosity` to work with node-webkit. In the end if was pretty much negative progress, the whole thing is broken now. Extracted the `nw-context` module for sharing document/window objects between contexts then immediately realised this was pointless because I could just assign them to the global object. Oh well. Released the module anyway because some people don't like globals. Going to change tacks here and work on the task/type/IPC mechanism for a while because I'm burned out on the UI stuff.

Wrote a script for managing this diary, a dodgy bit of shell, but it's working so far.

Extracted and published `domutil` module with a bunch of DOM helper functions like `addClass()` and `data()`, most of which I pinched from jQuery.

Started hacking on node-webkit based file tree component but I underestimated what was involved so back to the drawing board on this one. Might pick it up again tomorrow, there's no immediate need for it.

Really need to try a serious project with FP after watching Carmack's talk yesterday. Erlang/Haskell/Clojure/Racket - can see benefits in all of them but no immediate use for any - ramp-up time is too great. I've got this half-baked idea floating about for something entity-system related but it's very vague at the moment. Things I'm thinking:

  * special constructs for components/entities - implies new language or decent macro system
  * higher-level language compiling to C/ASM, in a similar vein to ND's GOAL
  * system side-effects are returned at the end of each frame as an array of deltas (possibly functions?)
    * use some smarts to apply deltas efficiently, or pluggable storage engine for going back in time?

References:

  * [GOAL](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Game_Oriented_Assembly_Lisp)
  * [Newsgroup posting on GOAL](http://web.archive.org/web/20070127022728/http://lists.midnightryder.com/pipermail/sweng-gamedev-midnightryder.com/2005-August/003804.html)

Love the idea of partial application in gamedev terms:

    function giveDamage(amount, enemy) {
      enemy.health -= amount;
    }

    var blaster = giveDamage.bind(this, 3);
    var bomb = giveDamage.bind(this, 100);

That's probably obvious to anyone who's been doing FP for a while but I always seem to have a little "a-ha" moment when presented a use for FP that isn't just updating a text box based on the position of the mouse cursor or something equally useless.

Liked his views on memory protection too, to enforce immutability of last frame's data. Pretty cool.

Itching to work on a serious game project, too much other shit to do though...

Meta: vim's markdown highlighting isn't working.

### Firedoom

Back on the game thing, have been thinking about how I could decompose Firedoom (the live-coding ES engine I demonstrated at ScotlandJS) into modules. Viable modules so far:

  * registry system supporting code recompilation with per-type wrappers
  * component blueprints + factories
  * event capture/playback inc. time
  * random number generator service (that can save state)
  * fuse/sysfs type thing
  * game stage manager:
    * declare states/transitions/visual transitions
    * should work with arbitrary DOM elements
    * support overlay states
    * build with later possiblity of adding visual editor in mind
  * map adapter (so we can plug the introspection into arbitrary renderers)

hudkit (the UI library) needs some love too. Want to get some FRP-influence in there, hopefully this article I'm about to read will point me in the right direction.

### Projects I intend to work on this evening:

#### FPGA

Spent ages trying to derive the logic for PWM before looking it up. Comparator. Duh, over-thinking as usual.

Managed to synthesize 8 x 8-bit PWMs driven by toggle switch array on the dev board, worked first time - pretty chuffed with that. Need to fully grok `always` blocks.

Next steps: an ALU I think. In terms of the *actual* FPGA project, need to learn how to implement PRS and drive these from a RAM buffer, but this can wait - too much of a jump for now I suspect.

#### kernel-module

Dinghied this, it's 2am and I've had a few vodkas - overshooting the Ballmer peak by quite some distance. Kernel hacking can wait for another day.

#### friendpipe

Comamnd syntax finished; wrote a docopt parser and stubbed some methods. Pushed to Github. Next up: config read/write.

#### curiosity tasks

Again, skipping this. Tomorrow.

### Reading

#### [CSP is Responsive Design](http://swannodette.github.io/2013/07/31/extracting-processes/)

Rather than UI widgets implementing their own controllers (i.e. a select box providing a data model as well as handling all related keypresses/clicks), compose widgets from event streams. TFA's example was of a selectable menu whose highlighted/selected items were controlled by an abstract event stream, completely decoupled from the visual representation. Interesting stuff that reminds me of FRP. Can totally see the benefits of Clojure in this example too.

Ideas: read up on CSP, implement something like this in JS. look into rewriting hudkit in ClojureScript - would be a good learning project.

### Kid's coding/sketch environment

Idea forming for a mash-up of logo/Processing - inspired by Boxer, of course - something __really__ simple. Less complicated than Curiosity obviously. Thinking basic syntax, windows for procedures and impromptu output windows. Backburner for now.
