## Sunday 4 August 2013

### FPGA

Read up on `always` blocks, makes all sense now. Was interested to learn about the constraints that apply to their use, and the corollary that not all Verilog designs are synthesizable.

Takeaways:

  * `always @(posedge clk)` - sequential
  * `always @(*)` - combinatorial, runs constantly
  * can only write to each `reg` variable from a single `always` block

In reflection, I need to become more familiar with the available range of 7400 logic ICs. When I was trying to derive the PWM circuit I was thinking in terms of counters, registers, and basic logic gates - because that's all I really knew about. If a comparator had been part of my design vocabulary I think I would have been able to find the solution myself. Aside: look at the implementation of various PSoC digital blocks.

### Curiosity

Plan: start a new codebase and write it _properly_&trade;. GUI layout + workspace switcher. Also: __must__ do some work on task system.

Took 3 pages of notes and type and task system. Will hack on it tomorrow.

### friendpipe

Plan: write configuration routines.

Done. Wrote a script entry point too. Also added address book management routines and module-based protocol loading. Just got to write the actual 'send' part. :)

Located a bunch of modules I can use for email and MIME-type interrogation. Shouldn't take long to get a working version out the door, just a couple of hours hopefully.

### Demo-a-week

Last week I decided to start making one small game/graphics/AI-related demo a week and publish it on my blog. Predictably, like anything I'm involved with, this turned into a giant fucking yak shave but I've mostly followed through with it, albeit one week behind schedule. I will publish the A-star demo tonight.

Nope, didn't happen. Paying the price for staying up till 4am last night.

### ClojureScript

Plan: set up a development environment.

Installed `lein` and did tutorial 1 on `modern-cljs`. Tutorial 2 wants me to install MAMP and configure Apache, sounds kinda dumb - surely it should be able to host itself?

Ok, not as bad as I thought - just followed their python SimpleHTTPServer advice and it works - no idea why they present MAMP as the recommended option - so have done tutorial 2 and have a working REPL. Will trundle through some more of the tutorials this week.

REPL seems kinda slow.

[modern-cljs](https://github.com/magomimmo/modern-cljs/blob/master/doc/tutorial-02.md)

### Reading

Didn't read anything today.
